WASHINGTON, D.C. - As hundreds of thousands of gun violence protesters rallied on Pennsylvania Avenue, Virginia high school students Aseal Saed and Yvonne White went to work.

Equipped with an iPhone and a Nikon camera, the duo waded into a sea of signs looking for students to interview. In the shadow of the Newseum - a few blocks from the main stage - they met with a pair of students from Delaware to do a quick interview on what they wanted to get out of the march.

"Let's make a change today," the students told White.

Saed and White are two of the hundreds of student reporters nationwide covering the March for Our Lives in D.C. and its sibling rallies in cities around the U.S. 

Because the March for Our Lives was a student-led movement, student reporters had the ability to provide a different perspective in their coverage than national outlets.

The main march

The main march in D.C. drew hundreds of thousands of supporters and featured 20 speakers - all of whom were children or teenagers - and performances from a number of artists, including Ariana Grande, Miley Cyrus and Lin-Manuel Miranda.

Saed, the editor-in-chief for Annandale (Va.) High School's student newspaper, The A-Blast, mapped out her newspaper's coverage on a sheet of paper that she carried around during the march. Her plan was to localize the story by focusing on Annandale students' involvement, but she also wanted to include voices from across the nation.

"We want it to have the unique perspective of specific students so it's not just like another story in The Washington Post," said White, a copy editor and circulation ad manager for The A-Blast. "And so Annandale students can read the story, like, 'Oh, I know that person there. And that's so cool that they are standing up for their rights.' Or, not necessarily agree with it."

Members of The Eagle Eye, the student newspaper at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., spoke at the Newseum on March 23, where they explained their position on the rally and how they've covered the story differently than national outlets.

"I think as a student publication, we have that liberty and that resource to be able to reach out to our students who actually survived this shooting," said Christy Ma, an associate editor for The Eagle Eye. "We have the resources to accurately portray what happened, and be able to tell the stories of what happened."

Rebecca Wessel and Oreet Zimand, two juniors from Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring, Md. and staff writers for the Silver Chips Online, said student publications are able to relate to students and focus on the angles that students are most interested in

Since the march took place during Montgomery Blair's spring break, Wessel and Zimand planned to interview students who marched in other cities across the country. They also talked with the school's track team, who wore armbands at a meet in support of the movement.

"As a student newspaper, our job is to serve the students," Zimand said. "Our angle is to show their voices, why they're there, and what they believe in. Sometimes, with other media sources, things can get lost."

Some of the student reporters also participated in the rally, carrying signs and joining in the call for change, though students said they worked to create a distinction between their personal beliefs and their reporting.

"We'll be snapping pictures but we'll also be cheering and shouting," said Emma Dowd, The Eagle Eye's co-editor in chief. "We all have personal opinions, so in our covering of the story, we are going to be as neutral as we can be. The facts. What happens. But in our personal lives, many of us feel very passionately about what this movement is aiming towards."

Though she attended the rally as a reporter, Avni Singh, a senior at Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology in Alexandria, Va., and the production editor for the school's newspaper, TJ Today, said she experienced a few different emotions while covering the march. She said it was sad hearing people discuss their experiences with gun violence, but she was relieved seeing so many people gathered to rally for change.

"I didn't expect it to affect me as much as it did," Singh said. "I really think everyone should have this experience in their lifetime."

Around the country

With more than 800 sister marches held around the world, student reporters across the nation had the opportunity to cover the historic movement. Journalists at Robinson High School's RHS Today covered their Tampa, Fla. rally.

The school did not allow anyone to promote the rally, said Macy McClintock, an RHS junior and a managing editor for RHS Today. Students were not allowed to hang posters or coordinate buses to the event. The paper decided to make the censorship the story.

"That became the angle, how kids were using their voices even when they're limited," McClintock said.

Another Tampa high school's newspaper had a different approach to its coverage. Marin Fehl, a sophomore page editor at Hillsborough High School's The Red and Black, said she took photos at the event and interviewed the mayor and a state representative. But, overall, Fehl said they wanted the focus to be on student activism.

"A lot of them related to this," Fehl said. "[The shooting] was such close proximity."

Louisiana State University's The Daily Reveille staff covered rallies in the state's two biggest cities: Baton Rouge and New Orleans.

"The biggest thing I told [my reporters] was to ask students 'why are you out here, what inspired you?'" said Evan Saacks, an LSU sophomore and The Daily Reveille's news editor. "I want to tell LSU what is happening. I'd really like to capture LSU's voice and present it in a way they can read it."

In Seattle, The Ballard Talisman from Ballard High School had to work to ensure its coverage was neutral, as some staff members were participating in the march. Those who did participate did not contribute to the reporting, and those out on assignment were there to report but not participate. Senior political correspondent Oscar Zahner said he did not want people who disagreed with the movement's message to feel "sidelined" by their coverage.

"Objective coverage is the best way to give the movement exposure," Zahner said.

Working with professionals

While most student journalists covered the events for their own school publications, others were able to share their reporting with commercial news outlets.

Staff members of The Eagle Eye were featured as guest editors with Britain's The Guardian for its rally coverage, while reporters for The Wilson Beacon at Woodrow Wilson Senior High School in D.C. worked with The Huffington Post, who tagged and tweeted the Beacon to their 11.5 million followers.

"The best part is definitely all the Twitter notifications," said junior Maya Wilson, the features editor at The Wilson Beacon.
WASHINGTON - Marjory Stoneman Douglas senior Emma Gonzalez stood silent, with tears streaming down her face, on a stage in front of thousands at Saturday's March for Our Lives.

After listing the names of the 17 people killed when a gunman rampaged through her school on Valentine's Day, Gonzalez asked the crowd to fathom how so many could be murdered in only 6 minutes and 20 seconds.

And then she stopped speaking.

Silent minutes ticked by. Then an alarm beeped.
"Since the time that I came out here, it has been 6 minutes and 20 seconds," she said finally. "The shooter has ceased shooting, and will soon abandon his rifle, blend in with the students as they escape and walk free for an hour before arrest."

She added: "Fight for your lives before it's someone else's job."

In the 39 days since the shooting in Parkland, Florida, Gonzalez and her fellow student survivors have galvanized a nationwide movement for gun reform.

On Saturday, hundreds of thousands of students gathered in the nation's capital and at sister marches across the country and around the world to deliver a powerful, unified message: Enough is enough.


Students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School organized and hosted the main event on the mall in Washington with the U.S. Capitol in the background, a stark reminder of why they were demanding change.

"We hereby promise to fix the broken system we've been forced into and create a better world for the generations to come," Cameron Kasky, one of the student organizers, told a cheering crowd filled with teenagers. "Don't worry, we've got this."

The Washington rally featured 20 student speakers, numerous famous musicians and the Stoneman Douglas Drama Club, which performed its original song, "Shine," with the student choir. Organizers estimated that 800,000 people attended the march.

Across the country, there were more than two dozen marches that occurred in large cities, including New York, Miami, Cincinnati, Houston, Atlanta, Baltimore, and Pittsburgh. Rallies were also held around the world in Israel, New Zealand, Australia, the U.K., Japan, Belgium, India, France and Chile.

In total, organizers estimated there were approximately 800 marches organized on Friday and Saturday - even one in Antarctica.

In Washington, rally-goers were chanting "Vote them out! Vote them out!" before the event began. Hundreds of homemade signs were held up above the crowd: "Stop the madness/vote them out." Another said, "18th century law can't regulate 21st century weapons." And another put it bluntly: "What's worth more? Your children or your guns?"

But Parkland survivor Jaclyn Corin said Saturday's rally was also about recognizing that gun violence is a nationwide problem.

Related
These Kids Aren't Kidding: The March For Our Lives Hits Streets Worldwide
"We recognize that Parkland received more attention because of its affluence," she said. "But we share this stage today and forever with those communities who have always stared down the barrel of a gun."

Trevon Bosley, 19, talked about the gun violence in Chicago that killed his brother Terrell Bosley on the way to church in April 2006. He said that these gun deaths are tied to the White House and American political leadership.

"When you have a president that would rather constantly talk about and belittle Chicago's violence rather than send funds and resources, you have gun violence," Bosley said.

"It's time for the nation to realize gun violence is more than just a Chicago problem or Parkland problem but an America problem," he added.

But it wasn't just recent graduates and high school students who took the stage on Saturday. Naomi Wadler, 11, of Alexandria, Virginia, spoke as well. She led a walkout at her elementary school on March 14.

"It's time for the nation to realize gun violence is more than just a Chicago problem or Parkland problem but an America problem."
"I'm here today to represent the African-American girls [killed by gun violence] who don't always make the front pages of the newspapers," she said. The crowd roared in response.

"My friends and I might still be 11, we might still be in elementary school, but we know," she added. "We know life isn't equal for everyone and we know what is right and wrong. We also know that we stand in the shadow of the Capitol and we know that we have seven short years until we, too, have the right to vote."

The rally also memorialized the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination, as Christopher Underwood, 11 - who lost his older brother to gun violence in Brooklyn, New York - reminded the crowd that the civil rights icon's death was the result of gun violence.

Those in attendance were surprised when King's granddaughter, Yolanda Renee King, 9, later came to the stage alongside Stoneman Douglas junior class president Jaclyn Corin with a microphone.

"My grandfather had a dream that his four children would not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character," she said. "I have a dream that enough is enough and that this should be a gun-free world. Period."

By the early afternoon, the march in Washington had drawn hundreds of thousands of people from all over the country. Participants arrived hours ahead of the noon start-time on Saturday to get a spot toward the stage, where Miley Cyrus, Lin-Manuel Miranda and Ben Platt and Ariana Grande performed.

Lawmakers from the House and Senate left Washington on Thursday for a two week-recess marking Easter and Passover. Numerous Democratic lawmakers remained for the event, however, including Florida lawmakers Sen. Bill Nelson and Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz.

President Trump left on Friday evening for his Mar-a-Lago property in Palm Beach, Florida. A White House spokeswoman released a statement prior to the event.

"We applaud the many courageous young Americans exercising their First Amendment rights today. Keeping our children safe is a top priority of the President's, which is why he urged Congress to pass the Fix NICS and STOP School Violence Acts, and signed them into law," Deputy Press Secretary Lindsay Walters said.

Stoneman Douglas survivor Delaney Tarr said the current legislation offered was not nearly enough.

"We are not here for bread crumbs; we are here for real change," she said. "We are here to lead, we are here to call out every single politician to force them into enacting this legislation."

The power of the moment was not lost on the thousands of students, teachers and parents in attendance.

"To anybody who thinks their voice doesn't matter, it does," Samantha Goldberg, a 17-year-old student at Stoneman Douglas, said as she was walking to the rally Saturday. "Every single voice comes together and makes a huge impact. This is just the beginning. This march is the first step in a long process, but ultimately there's going to be a huge change. I mean, there's not half a million people here for nothing."

Michelle Lo Brutto traveled to the march in Manhattan on Saturday with her family and her cousins from their home in Old Bridge, New Jersey. Around her neck she wore a sign demanding gun control in memory of her sister, Cristina.

In 2012, a gunman, armed with an AK-47, opened fire inside the supermarket where he worked with Cristina Lo Brutto. Cristina, 18, and her colleague Bryan Breen, 24, were both shot and killed. The gunman later killed himself.

"He had severe mental health issues and was hospitalized three times and he was still able to buy [a gun] legally," Michelle Lo Brutto said. "I think everyone has just had enough, they're just tired of seeing people they love get hurt or killed and they just don't want to be the next one."

Many in attendance felt they had been impacted by gun violence in one form or another, and said they were tired of the status quo.

 Sophie Zipoli, an 18 year-old high school senior from Burlington, Connecticut rallies at the March for Our Lives in Washington, DC on March 24, 2018. Jack Sears
"Sandy Hook happened not too far from my hometown several years ago," said Sophie Zipoli, a high school senior who traveled to Washington from Burlington, Connecticut. "After that, I thought there'd be some significant change, yet here we are years later and there still so many mass shootings and school violence."

Chicago native Ke'Shon Newman's 16-year-old brother was shot and killed a few blocks away from his home in Chicago's south side. Now, the 15-year-old routinely checks an app on his phone that tracks gun deaths in his city.

Newman told MSNBC that he traveled to Washington Saturday, to not only demand safety for students in America's classroom, but an end to gun violence in general.

Related
How mass shootings are affecting America's children - and how we can help
"I just want the world to be a more safe environment for everyone, this march today is going to bring more awareness around the country," he said. "Let's just stop all the gun violence in this country and let's get to action."

Teachers and parents also attended the rally and they were not shy about sharing their opinions on gun violence.

"It's unacceptable to me that our children live in fear of something like what's been going on in our schools," said Deb Sheridan, an eighth grade teacher from Leesburg, Virginia. "We need to address gun control issues and make our children feel safe in schools - that's the one place that they should be going in and looking for an education, not worrying about their safety."

Richard McDonald, 70, came from Detroit to Washington to visit his granddaughter and bring her to the March.

"I know that they're not fully engaged," he said of Trump and Congress, "and I think the only way to [create change] is to keep demonstrating that the public is against more guns. The idea of arming teachers is insane and it's not going to make things any better. What makes things better is not having guns at all."
Hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets around the country for March for Our Lives, student-initiated demonstrations to demand government action to reduce gun violence in the wake of the latest major mass school shootings in Parkland, Fla.  

In Washington, the student-driven event in Washington drew a mix of entertainers, including Lin-Manuel Miranda, Ben Platt, Miley Cyrus, Ariana Grande, and Common. George Clooney, Jeffrey Katzenberg and Steven Spielberg attended, along with other celebrities like Cher. A number of industry figures donated to the event, including Clooney, Katzenberg, Spielberg and Oprah Winfrey.

A standout moment came when Emma Gonzalez, a student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School who has been one of the leaders of the activist effort that has followed the mass shooting, paused during her speech until six minutes, 20 seconds had elapsed since she started it. That was the length of time it took the shooter to kill 17 victims at the high school. As she said nothing, the crowd stayed silent, save for a brief chant of, "Never again."

No politicians spoke at the event, and the musicians who appeared largely kept their statements to messages contained within their music.

Instead, the roster of speakers were almost entirely students from the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School high school and other teenagers who have been impacted by gun violence. They included youth from inner-city schools and neighborhoods where shootings are rampant but get little national media attention.

One of the students told the crowd that this was "not Coachella," referring to the popular music festival, and that it was instead a serious event honoring the victims of gun violence and demanding political action.

"I have a dream that enough is enough. And that this should be a gun-free world, period," said Yolanda Renee King, the granddaughter of Martin Luther King Jr., who was killed by an assassin 50 years ago on April 4.

The event also was heavily focused on getting young people more politically active and registered to vote as they turn 18, as a way of holding politicians accountable for not taking action on guns. There were many references to the strength of the National Rifle Association lobby, and to Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) for taking money from the group.

"If you listen real close, you can hear the people in power shaking," said David Hogg, another Parkland student who helped organize the march.

He added, "We're going to make this the voting issue. We're going to take this to every election, to every state, and every city."

A video during the event showed NRA officials, like Wayne LaPierre and Dana Loesch, as well as Charlton Heston, then the president of the organizations, saying, "From my cold dead hands." In the crowd the images drew boos and the bird.

The White House missed a statement saying, "We applaud the many courageous young Americans exercising their First Amendment rights today." President Trump was in Mar-a-Lago for the weekend.

Zion Kelly appeared on stage and described the events that led to the gun shooting death of his twin brother, Zaire, while walking home in northeast Washington. He asked the crowd to raise hands if they have been impacted by gun violence. Many went up.

"Just like you, I have had enough," he said.

The march ended with Jennifer Hudson singing "The Times They Are a Changin," Bob Dylan's standard that was an anthem of the protest era of the 1960s.

The march was more of a rally than an actual walk from the White House to the Capitol, in large part due to the size of the space. By the time it started at noon, almost the entire length was filled with participants.

Security was heavy, as authorities closed off streets and erected an elaborate system of barricades along Pennsylvania Avenue. But there was no screening through metal detectors.

Ellie d'Alessandro, 19, of Fairfax, Va., held a sign that read "I don't know enough about guns to demand regulation?" Below was drawn a diagram of the female reproductive system. "I'll wait," it read. She said that she wanted to combine a message from the Women's March, which she attended last year, with the march to end gun violence.

"There is no excuse for this. It is just ridiculous," she said of the Parkland shootings. "People shouldn't be afraid to walk out of their houses and go to school, school is supposed to be a safe place."

She said that she hopes that something comes out of the march. "I want people to stop arguing and get something done," she said. "There are so many different opinions, so many different things people are saying. You just need to come together and compromise."

Nearby, John Brown of New Jersey held a sign that read "#Grandparents: Common sense versus NRA/GOP."

Brown, 71, who is retired, said that he and his wife Ann, a school teacher, supported calls for greater restriction of weapons after the Newtown, Conn., shooting massacre in 2012. They went to one of the funerals for one of the girls killed in Newtown, who was a cousin of one of Ann's students.

"Our philosophy and belief in life is that this is not the way our country should be running," Ann said. "We should not have these weapons of war available to all of us."

After Newtown, she added, "things didn't change. Things never changed." But, she said, "you can't lose hope. You have to keep trying."

"I am so, so grateful and delighted that politicians were not allowed," said Margie White, of the Washington DC area. "They are they cause of so much of this. To have their here would just besmirch the whole thing in my opinion, taking away from the kids and what they are trying to do."

Clarence Hoop, 69, of Virginia, said that "we finally have a group that is willing to speak up which we have ignored for years, and even though we had a ban on military type of weapons for 10 years, Congress let it dissolve, so we are here we are repeating history again, once again killing off our kids. This is something that has got to stop."

Hoop worked at the Pentagon for 42 years and recalled watching the student demonstrations of the Vietnam war in the 1960s, but he thinks these students are more effective.

"They have the funding and they are going to keep this up and I think they will succeed," he said.

He said that "these kids have to resources that they will keep coming back and coming back to remind us, and that is what we need. Those reminders."

In New York City, Paul McCartney joined protesters near the Dakota Building where fellow Beatle John Lennon was killed by a gunman in 1980.

Marchers chanted "NRA sashay away," at the New York rally, holding posters decrying the involvement of the National Rifle Association in government.

Maria Shriver attended the demonstration and March For Our Lives event in downtown Los Angeles, where Amy Schumer was also present. Shriver and Schumer chatted and posed for pictures with survivors of the Parkland High mass shooting.


In an interview with Variety, Shriver said the gun control debate has a renewed energy and a very different feel than times past.

"It feels much more 'of the people,'" she said. "It feels much more inclusive, it feels much more multigenerational. These are all young people who are going to vote. I think that's going to have an impact on people who are up for re-election this coming year in the midterms."

Shriver said the movement has focused on where it can most be effective - registering teens when they turn 18.

"Young people in these marches have very specific asks. It's not so general," she said.

The spate of school shootings that have claimed an increasing number of lives since Columbine, Sandy Hook Elementary, and many others have created new activists.

"There's a lot more people involved that never cared about this issue before," she said. "I lost members of my family to gun violence. This has been an issue that I've grown up with, but it's across generations now and it has a different heat to it, a different energy to it."

Willow Shields, 17, attended Saturday's rally at Grand Park, part of the thousands of teens who demonstrated in downtown Los Angeles. She clutched a sign that read "Books not bullets," and said that she is eager to turn 18 so she can exercise her right to vote.

"People are finally realizing the strength that young people have," Shields said. "This is really driven by teenagers."

She said she admires the Parkland High student activists and others who have become outspoken after experience a shooting. "These kids that are putting themselves out there and having to relive this stuff every day and deal with it, they're doing it for the better of the future for all of us."

At the Washington march, Kiki Baker, 17, of Vienna, Va., was with two other teenage friends, Haylie Roberts, 17, of Pensacola, Fla. and Kayla Ogden, 17, of Naples, Fla. A junior in high school, Baker held a sign that read, "We are students, not targets."

"Especially after Parkland, it has got to stop," Baker said. "This is the time to do it. If not now, then when?"

She added, "This is something that will spark a lot of change, and inspire a lot of people. So I think it is an amazing day, and I think it will go down in history."

Andy Spahn, whose political strategy firm represents Spielberg and Katzenberg, tweeted out a photo of their meeting with the students.

The NRA posted a video on its Facebook page Saturday that included the note, "Today's protests aren't spontaneous. Gun-hating billionaires and Hollywood elites are manipulating and exploiting children as part of their plan to DESTROY the Second Amendment and strip us of our right to defend ourselves and our loved ones."


The student survivors of February's mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. are proving that more than any activists in a generation, they have managed to take over the conversation around gun control and American safety.

"The world failed us and we're here to make a new one that's going to be easier on the next generation. If you're against that, then get out," Cameron Kasky, March For Our Lives co-founder told Time magazine in a new cover story.

Today, at least a half-million people, most prominently students, are expected to gather for the March For Our Lives demonstration in Washington, D.C. and over 800 sister marches across the world.
The student survivors of February's mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. are proving that more than any activists in a generation, they have managed to take over the conversation around gun control and American safety.

"The world failed us and we're here to make a new one that's going to be easier on the next generation. If you're against that, then get out," Cameron Kasky, March For Our Lives co-founder told Time magazine in a new cover story.

Today, at least a half-million people, most prominently students, are expected to gather for the March For Our Lives demonstration in Washington, D.C. and over 800 sister marches across the world.

View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter

TIME
?
@TIME
 "Inaction is inexcusable." TIME's editor @efelsenthal on what we can learn from the student teachers in Parkland, Fla. http://ti.me/2pyFaus 

9:15 AM - Mar 23, 2018
1,526
761 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Organizing the march along with Kasky are survivors Emma González, David Hogg, Jacklyn Corinn, Alex Wind and Ryan Deitsch, all of whom have emphasized their mission to "demand that a comprehensive and effective bill be immediately brought before Congress to address these gun issues."

"The adults know that we're cleaning up their mess," Kasky told Time.

Today's March For Our Lives event is just one way the Stoneman Douglas students have mobilized since the February tragedy. Thousands of people across America took part in the #Enough National School Walkout on Wednesday, March 14 to both honor those killed at the high school in February and fight for stricter gun laws.

"These students are trying to build a different kind of world and correct a lot the mistakes people in previous generations made," Columbia University professor Ed Morales, author of the upcoming book "Latinx: The New Force in American Politics and Culture," tells CNBC Make It.

Morales argues that González, one of the most vocal student survivors, and her emblematic Gen Z peers (Americans born between 1994 and 2010) have succeeded in leading the March For Our Lives movement because of their youth, protest style and ability to hold inclusive conversations.

González, an 18-year-old senior at Stoneman Douglas, directly called out President Donald Trump and the National Rifle Association (NRA) at an anti-gun rally held days after the mass shooting. A week later, González and fellow survivors again criticized the NRA and lawmakers at a CNN town hall on gun violence.

And their efforts are showing: New results from a Gallup poll conducted after the Stoneman Douglas shooting found that support for stricter laws on gun sales is at its highest since 1993.

Here are three ways González and her Gen Z peers are pioneering change when so many who came before them failed, according to Morales.

They're protesting to prevent further mass shootings
In an interview of the five students on 60 Minutes that aired on March 18, CBS News correspondent Sharyn Alfonsi asked them how their protest could be different than the parents who made it their life's mission to get real change after the Sandy Hook mass shooting.

"The thing about it is we are the generation that's had to be trapped in closets, waiting for police to come or waiting for a shooter to walk into our door. We are the people who know what it's like first-hand," Wind said.

The student survivors of February's mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. are proving that more than any activists in a generation, they have managed to take over the conversation around gun control and American safety.

"The world failed us and we're here to make a new one that's going to be easier on the next generation. If you're against that, then get out," Cameron Kasky, March For Our Lives co-founder told Time magazine in a new cover story.

Today, at least a half-million people, most prominently students, are expected to gather for the March For Our Lives demonstration in Washington, D.C. and over 800 sister marches across the world.

View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter

TIME
?
@TIME
 "Inaction is inexcusable." TIME's editor @efelsenthal on what we can learn from the student teachers in Parkland, Fla. http://ti.me/2pyFaus 

9:15 AM - Mar 23, 2018
1,526
761 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Organizing the march along with Kasky are survivors Emma González, David Hogg, Jacklyn Corinn, Alex Wind and Ryan Deitsch, all of whom have emphasized their mission to "demand that a comprehensive and effective bill be immediately brought before Congress to address these gun issues."

"The adults know that we're cleaning up their mess," Kasky told Time.

Today's March For Our Lives event is just one way the Stoneman Douglas students have mobilized since the February tragedy. Thousands of people across America took part in the #Enough National School Walkout on Wednesday, March 14 to both honor those killed at the high school in February and fight for stricter gun laws.

"These students are trying to build a different kind of world and correct a lot the mistakes people in previous generations made," Columbia University professor Ed Morales, author of the upcoming book "Latinx: The New Force in American Politics and Culture," tells CNBC Make It.

Morales argues that González, one of the most vocal student survivors, and her emblematic Gen Z peers (Americans born between 1994 and 2010) have succeeded in leading the March For Our Lives movement because of their youth, protest style and ability to hold inclusive conversations.

González, an 18-year-old senior at Stoneman Douglas, directly called out President Donald Trump and the National Rifle Association (NRA) at an anti-gun rally held days after the mass shooting. A week later, González and fellow survivors again criticized the NRA and lawmakers at a CNN town hall on gun violence.

And their efforts are showing: New results from a Gallup poll conducted after the Stoneman Douglas shooting found that support for stricter laws on gun sales is at its highest since 1993.

Here are three ways González and her Gen Z peers are pioneering change when so many who came before them failed, according to Morales.

They're protesting to prevent further mass shootings
In an interview of the five students on 60 Minutes that aired on March 18, CBS News correspondent Sharyn Alfonsi asked them how their protest could be different than the parents who made it their life's mission to get real change after the Sandy Hook mass shooting.

"The thing about it is we are the generation that's had to be trapped in closets, waiting for police to come or waiting for a shooter to walk into our door. We are the people who know what it's like first-hand," Wind said.


"We're the mass shooting generation," Kasky added. "I was born months after Columbine. I'm 17 years old, and we've had 17 years of mass shootings."

Morales explains that while politicians in Congress and coalitions of victims' families have pushed for gun law reform after mass shootings, they haven't had the same unprecedented success in getting their voices heard like these high school students.

"This is the first time that there is a mass movement among pre-college students, staging walkouts and protests in the manner that has been done about other issues in the past," Morales says.

Citing the American immigration rights movement, the anti-apartheid movement, AIDS activism and the protests against American involvement in the Vietnam War, Morales says those were protests primarily led by victims directly affected by these particular issues.

"One of the reasons why the protest movement against the Vietnam War in the 1960s was so massive is that everyone was exposed to this universal draft and there was a real a danger to [men] that might be drafted," Morales says. "Now, we're at this place where mass shootings are so common that young people feel [shootings] are almost as much a threat to their lives."

With regard to Wednesday's high school walkouts, Morales says he's "not trying to diminish [previous movements]," but today's students are leading a "preventative movement" to avoid becoming victims of another tragedy.

"They want to put strong pressure on Congress to change laws. They're offering different suggestions like banning bump stocks, high capacity automatic weapons, enforcing an age limit and a background check law," Morales says. "They're trying to put pressure and force action."

On Friday, González shared an op-ed for Teen Vogue in which she repurposed the Preamble to the Constitution in honor of the #NeverAgain movement and today's march:

They're using social media and their youth to create change
"People always say, 'Get off your phones,' but social media is our weapon," Corin told Time. "Without it, the movement wouldn't have spread this fast."

Stoneman Douglas student survivors have primarily used social media to rally the public around hashtags such as #NeverAgain, #March4OurLives and #DouglasStrong.

Morales says Gen Z's activism on social media and their youth helps them enact change so quickly.

"As millennials raise their concerns, it seems like they're being taken up in a more activist fashion by Generation Z. These [Parkland] students are very motivated and are not compromising," Morales said.

He argues millennials and Gen Z hold more progressive views since they face job insecurity and less opportunity to accumulate wealth than older generations.

"PEOPLE ALWAYS SAY, 'GET OFF YOUR PHONES,' BUT SOCIAL MEDIA IS OUR WEAPON."
-Jaclyn Corin, Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School junior class president
Morales adds that Gen Z is better equipped to lead the March For Our Lives movement because millennials are, quite frankly, getting older and are busy being "successful adults" with families. That doesn't leave "a lot of time to be involved in direct action or confrontational politics," he says.

"They have less to lose by devoting a lot of time to [activism]," says Morales.

They're sparking an inclusive conversation
González's strong sense of self and identity shines through as a defining characteristic of the most vocal Douglas Stoneman students.

She begins her Harper's Bazaar op-ed by stating her name and saying, "I'm 18 years old, Cuban and bisexual," but concludes, "none of this matters anymore" in light of the tragedy.

Intersectionality, a term first coined by civil rights activistKimberlé Crenshaw, was designed to fight for the rights of marginalized women, such as African-Americans, Latinos and Native Americans, in the midst of male-dominated liberation movements.

Morales says that González is clearly aware of intersectionality and different political causes, thanks to the convergence of her Latina identity and millennials' growing focus on inclusivity.

"What you see with Emma is someone who is aware that she's Cuban, aware that she's a woman and aware that she is bisexual and she sees all those things as continuous and intersecting, that these issues should all be thought about together," Morales says. "She's able to juggle a series of interlocking problems and work on all of them at once, rather than just feel like she has to focus on one at the expense of the other."

In order to see political change, Morales argues, people need to understand the challenges different groups of people face. He says González and her peers are doing exactly that.

"Emma is capable of a large series of interlocking problem-solving things that she has in her life," he says, "and she's able to juggle all of them and work on all of them at once rather than just feeling like she has to focus on one at the expense of the other."

Earlier this month González and the members of March For Our Lives met with students from Chicago, one of the country's cities with the most gun-related crimes, to talk about their experiences.

"Young people are much more equipped to see the world today. Twenty years ago, you had to struggle just to come up with the language to describe what all these [intersecting] issues meant, but now you can expect an article in Teen Vogue on it and you can see it all over social media," Morales says. "It's exciting."
